# Badass #
Badass is a database-centric command-line code generation tool written in .net core. 

## Main Ideas ##
- Use all the schema information from a relational database
- Generated code should look as nice as human-written code.
- You should be able to re-generate your code multiple times.
- You should be able to opt out of re-generating particular files.
- Use sane conventions for naming and structure over configuration. 

## What Does Badass Generate ##
Badass attempts to generate a 'full stack' of an application once the database schema is defined. Generating a full application is usually infeasible because some parts of an application will be particular to that application. Badass tries to create a good base to customise from. It generates:
- database functions and types for function results
- database policies for controlling entity access
- C# 'repository' wrappers for database functions
- C# controllers that call through to repositories
- typescript client API for calling C# controllers
- React components for displaying, editing, and deleting entities.

## Databases ##
Relational databases provide a rich source of machine-readable information about the entities and their relationships in a domain. Badass uses this, with some augmentation via attributes, to generate the basics of an application. Badass is currently very postgres-centric, but could be enhanced to support other databases in the future.

## Command-Line Arguments ##
`-h|-?|--help` show help

## Configuration ##
Badass uses a combination of command-line arguments and configuration to control its behaviour. Longer, infrequently changing, and more tedious to type settings like paths and database connection strings should be stored config. 

You can specify the configuration file to use with the `-c` command-line parameter. For example if passed `-c foo` badass will look for a configuration file called `foo.codegen.json`.  

Here is an example codegen.json config file:

```
{
  "root": "c:\\temp\\NewProject\\app",
  "name": "AppName",
  "data-fldr": ".\\Data\\Database\\",
  "ConnectionStrings": {
    "application-db": "Server=127.0.0.1;Port=5432;Database=database_name;User Id=code_gen_user;Password=secret_password;"
  }
}
```

### Base Project ###

### Re-Generating Code ###
Badass is designed to allow you to re-generate your code many times. Each generated file has a small comment at the start of it that signals that it was generated by Badass. If you make manual modifications to a file and no-longer want it re-generated you should remove this comment. There are also command-line switches for deleting generated code, which you can use to purge generated code that is no-longer required. Some of the generated code is also factored in such a way that customizations can be made in smaller, targeted files (e.g. UI validation), so that re-generation can still occur for larger ones.

## Schema Conventions ##
- datetime fields with names `created` and `updated` will be used for change tracking, if present
- the presence of a datetime field called `deleted_date` will allow "soft delete" of items in a table
- a table called attachments with a byte[] field will be treated as a table for uploading/storing files, or you can add an attribute called isAttachment and set to true
- the first text field of an entity will be used as the 'display' field for that entity.
- a field called `search_content` of type tsvector will be automatically updated with all text values for the entity when it is saved (so it can be searched). Search UI for this entity will also be generated.

## Attributes ##
Attributes are set as a JSON text string 'comment' on the respective database entity.

### Entity/Table Level ###
- hardDelete: true|false - When set to true generates an operation to 'hard' delete the entity. Defaults to false.
- ignore: true|false - ignores an entity for code-generation purposes. Defaults to false.
- important: true|false - flags the type as important. Doing this will add it to the 'home' screen for ordinary users.
- ui: true|false - When set to false suppresses the generation of any UI for this entity. Default to true.
- api: true|false - When set to false supresses the generation of any controller API for this entity. Default to true. If 'api' is set to false UI generation is also disabled, as if the 'ui' attribute (above) was set to false.
- isSecurityPrincipal: true|false - flags a type as being the type the app will use for security tracking, and will get from the HttpContext.User. Defaults to false. 
- createPolicy: true|false - when set to false no security policy will be created. Default is true.
- type - 'reference' causes ApplicationType IsReference to return true. Used in the creation of security policies.
- noAddUI: true|false - suppress creation of add UI for that type. Defaults to false.
- noEditUI: true|false - suppress creation of edit UI for that type. Defaults to false.
- isAttachment: true|false - when set to true is treated specially as a table for uploading/storing files. Defaults to false.
- security: an array of roles with the rights that they have. There are 3 built-in 'roles' - 'user' (authenticated users), 'admin' (administrators) and 'anon' (anonymous/unauthenticated users). If no security information is provided then administrators can view, add, edit and delete (if the entity allows it) all entities, authenticated users can view reference data, add data, and edit/delete data they created. Anonymous users cannot do anything. The rights that can be assigned at the entity level are: read, read-all, list, add, edit, edit-all, and delete. The difference between read and read-all is that read allows a type of user to view the items they created, whereas read-all allows them to view all entities of that type. Edit and edit-all are similar. Security is implemented as a combination of row-level security (RLS) policy and attributes on ASPNET controllers. An example security setting that would allow anonymous users read {"security":{"anon":["read"]}}
- apiHooks: "none"|"modify"|"all" - When set to "modify" any API methods that changes or creates new data will generate an API hook. When set to "all", all API operations will generate pre and post-execution hooks. Defaults to "none", which means no hooks will be generated. 
- apiConstructor: "generate"|"none" - when set to "generate" a constructor is generated for the API controller. When set to none no constructur is generated, so a custom constructor can be added to a partial class. Defaults to "generate".

### Function Level ###
- applicationtype:[type name] on a function acts as a hint that that type should be returned by the function wrapper
- changesData: true|false - the function changes data (used to generate validation). Defaults to false. 
- createsNew: true|false - the function creates a new entity. Defaults to false.
- generated: true|false - used by code-gen infrastructure to determine if it should be dropped on re-generation.  Defaults to false.
- returnTypeName:[type name] - custom type name for query result. If this attribute is not set the name of the query is appended with the word 'Result'
- isSearch: true|false - Identifies 'search' operations that receive some special UI treatment. Defaults to false.
- navParams:string[] - list of parameters provided via navigation rather than entered by the user.
- isDelete: true|false - Identifies 'delete' operation. Defaults to false.
- ui: true|false - When set to false suppresses the generation of any UI for this operation. Default to true.
- api: true|false - when set to false suppresses the generation of anything relating to this operation at the API layer. Defaults to true;
- apiHooks: true|false - when set to true custom 'before' and 'after' methods are called prior to the generated API code being called. Defaults to false.
- single_result: true|false - when set to true it causes the generated repository and API operations to return singular items instead of lists. Defaults to false.
- fullName: string - used to get around the 63 byte length limit of postgres entities. The pattern of <entity>_<operation> often leads to names greater than 63 characters.

### Field Level ### 
- largeContent : true|false - Signals to UI generators when set to true that a particular field should be displayed with more screen area. Defaults to false.
- rank: number - used to order fields in UI
- isRating: true|false - if true (and applied to a numeric field) the UI changes to show a a 1-5 star input widget. Defaults to false.
- isContentType: true|false - if true (on an entity that is an attachment/file) it stores the MIME/content-type the item will be served up as, and is set from the inbound content stream. Defaults to false.
- type: 'color', 'thumbnail' - when set to color indicates that the field stores a color value. The UI changes to reflect this.
							 - when set to 'thumbnail' (on an entity that is an attachment/file) it stores a thumbnail of the attachment/file.
							 Defaults to empty.
- add: true|false - When set to false excludes the field from add operations and from add UI. Default to true.
- edit: true|false - When set to false excludes the field from edit operations and from edit UI. Default to true.
